---
title: Lab Week 1 (Devlin Onichuk)
author: Devlin Onichuk
date: 2024-09-24
category: XRD
layout: post
---

<b>Kicking Off Our AR Project in Unity</b>

We’re excited to share that today marked the official start of our AR project using Unity! At 09:00 24-09-2024, our team gathered in a study room at VIA University, collaborating closely to ensure a smooth and productive workflow throughout the day. Our primary goal is to begin the implementation of a immersive AR experience by implementing key features, including GUI design, furniture placement, and color detection.

To streamline the development process, we’ve divided the project into these core features. The GUI will provide users with an intuitive interface to interact with the AR environment, while the furniture placement feature allows for virtual objects to be placed in real-world spaces. Additionally, the color detection functionality will enable the system to recognize and interact with real-world colors, as well as adding the ability to compare these colors with one that can be brought into the real world with AR to help users in selecting the right color for thier house, bed-room, or office space.

General design desicions were made for the menu as well as how the user should be able to interact with the AR system, this included the menu and button layout. As well as the potential for extended features required to ensure the functionality of the AR project. For example the ability to add furniture in the real world space, but in addition the potential ability for scaling the furniture in AR, or another example would be the ability to measure the real world space to assist in placement of furniture in the real world space.

While most of the team began implementation today, we did encounter some technical difficulties. One of our team members was unable to start due to technical issues, which we are working to resolve quickly to ensure everyone is back on track. 

Despite the setback, we’ve drawn inspiration from existing projects and research to move forward. We’re confident that by working closely together, we’ll overcome these challenges and create a seamless AR experience.

Overall, this was a bumpy start to the week, but it did give us key insights to the amount of time we will need to put into the project to ensure we are able to implement the key features of the AR experience.
